JUDY WOODRUFF: Author Gayle
Tzemach Lemmon usually reports
for us from the other side
of the world, covering
stories such as the refugee
crisis and child marriage.
Tonight, she shares her Humble
Opinion about something closer
to home and much more personal.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON,
Author: School choice.
Those two words spark a whole
host of emotions from people
across the political spectrum.
As a kid, I never heard the
words school choice uttered.
But they did indeed
shape my childhood.
You see, my mom was a single
mom, a union Democrat who worked
at the phone company during
the day and sold tupperware at
night, at least on the nights
when she wasn't studying for
her college degree.
She frequented yard sales,
grocery-shopped with double
coupons, and knew her way around
the Marshalls layaway window.
And she lied about our address,
so that I could attend what
she judged to be the best
public elementary
school in our area.
In a number of states,
that is seen as a felony.
In fact, parents across the
country regularly face jail
time and huge fines for what my
mom did, really.
Parents are facing
prison to give their
children possibilities,
possibilities that area given
for upper-middle-class and
wealthy families, families that
can exercise their own school
choice because they have
the means to choose what and
where is best for their kids.
As a kid, it didn't occur to
me that using a baby-sitter's
address or an address where
my dad used to live
before the bank took his
property back was wrong.
It was what was required,
do-it-yourself school choice to
make more choices down the road
possible.
And it worked.
The good school my mom got me
into, gave me a great start
for the rest of my education.
I went to a good college.
From there, I had the privilege
of becoming a Fulbright
Scholar, and that helped lead
me to Harvard Business School.
But along the way, I
saw just how narrow the
funnel that leads to the
nation's elite institutions
truly is.
The thing that strikes me
now is that all that I have
had the privilege of learning
and doing and undertaking since
then is because I had a mom
who understood that education
was the best anti-poverty
vaccination she could
give me and the best
shot at class mobility
she had to offer.
For many moms and dads,
school choice is not an
issue, it's not partisan.
It is about possibilities
and a chance to give kids the
springboard they need to vault
over class barriers and toward
the best future they can build.
And that future is
something in which every
one of us has a stake.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gayle Tzemach
Lemmon, we thank you.